# Summary

AI-generated texts have a wide range of use cases across various industries and domains such as; Content Generation, Personalized Marketing, Virtual Assistants and Chatbots:, Creative Writing and Storytelling, and more. 

## Goal

The goal of this competition is to predict whether each text is generated by AI or not, which is indicated by "ind" column (1: Generated by AI 0: Generated by humans) by using the following information:

- feature_0 ~ feature_767: word embeddings of the sentence
- word_count: the number of words in the sentence
- punc_num: the number of punctuations present in the sentence

## Analysis

Based on the above classification report of the test partition, the model performance metrics can be summarized as follows:

1. F-1 Score: 0.70

2. Precision: 0.87

3. Recall: 0.58

While the F-1 score can still be improved, the precision score is quite high at 0.95 (95%). This indicates the proportion of true positives identified relative to the total number of true positives and false positivies. Therefore, this is a measure of the actual positives identified by the model. On the other hand, the recall score is quite low at 0.58(58%). This refers to the proportion of true positives identified relative to the total number of true positives and false negatives. Notably, this model performs even better when all parameters are retained as predictors and yields a higher F-1 score (0.71). 

## Observations

1. The first observation was that if feature section methods were used like Random Forest classifiers, Principal Components Analysis (PCA), Boruta shadow variables, and K-best feature selection, the resultant F-1 score is lower. This is because the model cannot capture the entire trend of the dataset and could also be due to loss of information. However, if all the parameters were retained as predictors and the models were run, the computational time was quite high. It was an interesting challenge to balance the trade off between interpretability and computational time.

2. The second observation made was related to oversampling. The project chose to not use Synthetic Miniority Over-sampling Technique (SMOTE) to balance the classes in this classification problem. It was initially considered because the target class (1) was not proportional to the other class (0) in the target variable.However, the project chose to not proceed with the SMOTE technique because it created synthetic data which added noise in the model. This reduced the model performance metrics such as the F-1 score, accuracy and precision, ultimately reducing the accurate predictions of the target variable.


3. The third observation is the role played by word_count in as an important feature in the final model. During the EDA exploration, it was found taht both punc_num and word_count have a moderately strong positive correlation to the target variable. Upon completing the permutation importance analysis, word_count was found to play a key role as the most important contributor in predicting the target variable. Potentially, punc_num does not feature in the list as it has a strong positive correlation with word_count.

4. The fourth observation was about the model's interpretability. The partial dependece plot for word_count indicates that higher the value of word_count, there is a greater chance of the target variable being 1 i.e. AI-originated. This finding is in contrast to the observations made during EDA (Output 5). The opposite can be noted for feature_512 and featue_386 wherein higher the value of the predictor, higher the chance of the target variable being 0 i.e. human-originated.

5. The final observation made was that a single model by itself would not yield a F-1 score higher than 0.68. This was likely due to the fact that the information captured from the complex dataset was limited. THe project's success lay in the fact that results were combined from multiple models using a stacking ensemble which boosted the accuracy of the target class prediction. The only drawback to this approach is the loss of interpretability that is associated with ensemble models.
